the US has welcomed news that Israel
will allow three humanitarian corridors
into Gaza following a phone call between
President Biden and the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for the
first time since the start of the Israel
Gaza War Israel will temporarily reopen
The erat's Crossing in Northern Gaza
ashdod Port will also be opened for
humanitarian deliveries and more Aid
trucks from Jordan will be allowed to
cross Israel to Gaza the call between Mr
Biden and Mr Netanyahu was their first
since an Israeli air strike killed seven
International Aid workers from the
charity group World Central Kitchen
sparking International outrage the White
House is urging Israel to allow a
dramatic increase of Aid into Gaza
within hours or days sha Dilly
reports in the heart of the White House
a phone call with Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu and a clear
message from the US president that his
patience is running
low Joe Biden told his cart that Israel
must do more immediately to protect
civilians and Aid workers in Gaza if he
wants American Support to
continue it's no secret that tensions
between the two leaders have been
bubbling for some time but the US is
Israel's most powerful Ally in his
hardest criticism yet Joe Biden called
the growing humanitarian crisis
unacceptable and said he expects Mr
Netanyahu to take steps towards an
immediate ceasefire
the president made it clear that our
policies with respect to Gaza uh will be
dependent upon our assessment of how
well the Israelis uh make changes and
Implement changes uh to to make the
situation in Gaza better for the
Palestinian people and how much time are
you giving them to make these changes to
implement these concrete we we would
hope to see some announcements of
changes here in coming hours and days a
clear message and one is is has been
quick to hear within hours Israel said
it had approved more humanitarian routs
to increase Aid to Gaza the erors gate
in Northern Gaza will be temporarily
opened for the first time since the
start of the war more aid from Jordan
will enter through the caram Shalom
Crossing this was the two leaders first
call since seven Aid workers were killed
in an Israeli air strike on Monday among
the dead three British citizens working
to distribute food Israel said their
deaths were a tragic mistake for the
families of the dead it's a claim they
don't accept they were in deconflict
zone um controlled by the
IDF they were following all the rules
and procedures Israel which are very
strict Israel laid out the world Central
Kitchen has never lost a staff person
since they opened their
doors so he felt reasonably confident
that he could accomplish the
mission um safely I grew up without
having a
father and now my grandson will grow up
without having his
father the United Nations said 500 Aid
trucks would be needed every day to
support civilians in Gaza right now
though any progress is being welcomed by
those who desperately need food water
and Medicine sha Dilly BBC News well
let's get more on events in the Middle
East and speak to our correspondent in
Jerusalem Yan now is standing by for as
highand good to see you uh let's start
with that phone call between President
Biden and prime minister Netanyahu the
first since uh the death of the seven
International Aid workers on Monday tell
us more about what happened in that
call well this was a stark warning
really from uh President Biden uh to uh
Israel its close Ally uh that really it
was prepared to to make changes uh in
its policies towards Israel if Israel
didn't change its conduct of the war and
didn't do more to protect uh civilians
in Gaza and also Aid workers and I think
often in the past we have seen
relatively little change um after these
kinds of uh problems have have bubbled
up between uh the US and Israel it's
very telling that this time what we've
seen within hours is a meeting of
Israel's security cabinet and what we're
told our immediate steps being announced
to increase the amount of Aid going into
Gaza and they are actually things that
have been asked for repeatedly by Aid
agencies by International diplomats so
Israel has said that it's going now to
open up uh the eras Crossing in the very
north of the Gaza Strip This has for
years been um the main uh crossing point
for people to go in and out of Gaza
controlled by Israel it's the location
where we've of course been in and out in
the past as journalists when we were
allowed to access Gaza it's also going
to mean that the ashdod port which is
only about U 20 mi along the coast from
the north of the Gaza Strip that is
going to be uh used to process uh more
shipments up to now it's had very
limited use uh for Aid going into Gaza
and it's something that could really
make a big difference particularly in
conjunction with using uh the areas
Crossing to get into the north of Gaza
where we've been told by the un uh that
famine is looming largest and there'll
also be steps Tak I'm told to uh have
much more going along the Jordanian land
Corridor which links up with the Kem
Shalom Crossing in the south of the Gaza
Strip and Yan do we know how soon any of
this could
happen well they have been talking about
this happening imminently we haven't got
precise timings we haven't got details
yet of the quantities of Aid that will
be involved or or what kind of details
there might be uh when it comes to
Israeli Security checks that will be
demanded um but the US has said it
welcomes the announcement uh by Israel
but it will be watching really to assess
uh what difference this makes your land
in Jerusalem thank you